hello this is presto Walker your credit
card number probably looks pretty random
to you but hidden inside those digits is
a secret mathematical code in this video
I'll teach you a magic trick based on
the pattern you'll need a credit card a
debit card or an ATM card that has 16
digits you also want some pencil and
paper to do some simple calculations for
this video I'm going to do the
calculation for the number that's
written on the screen but you should
follow along with your own credit card
number to get started focus on the 16
digits in the number and separate them
into two groups for the first step add
up every other digit in this case the
digits which are colored in black will
add up 1 3 5 7 8 0 0 and 0 to get to a
sum of 24 we'll go ahead and double this
result 24 times 2 is 48 now look at the
numbers which you've just added up count
the number of digits which are 5 or
larger in this case the number is 5 7 &
8 are 5 or larger so that means there
are three numbers which are 5 or larger
finally add up the remaining digits
these are the digits which are colored
in blue 2 4 6 8 9 0 0 and 0 this gives
the sum of 29 now we're ready to do the
magic part we have three numbers 48 3
and 29 when we add up these three
numbers we're going to end up with the
number whose last digit is 0 and this is
true for every single credit card number
so that's the magic part you can have
someone do this
do these calculations and you're going
to say alright look at your number the
last digit is zero
you might be wondering why this works
this in fact is a mathematical code that
is programmed into your credit card
number the reason it's in there is
because if you've ever typed your credit
card number into a website and you've
accidentally typed in the wrong number
the website doesn't know it needs to
know how to validate a correct number
from an incorrect number so this is one
way that they track that you've typed in
a credit card number that's valid if you
end up with the sum whose last digit is
not zero then that means you probably
typed in your credit card number
incorrectly so it's a pretty neat magic
trick and someone who doesn't know that
this is encoded in the magic in the
credit card number is going to be
surprised you knew the last stage of
this number is zero thanks for watching
this video please subscribe to my
channel I make videos on math and game
theory you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions which you can follow on
Facebook Google+ and patreon you can
catch me on social media at posh talker
and please check out my books I've
written a detailed description of each
one in the description for this video